So real quick, we're not gonna talk too
much about prototyping, but I will show it
to you, because I think prototyping
is a really powerful tool in Figma,
but also, I know how to write JavaScript.
So a lot of times, if I wanna prototype
something, I could just build it,
but it's kind of an interesting
concept here as well.
And so with prototyping, we can kind
of create mockups of the UI and
put them in front of customers.
And ideally, this one only saves
me work because work I don't
have to do is a lot faster
than work I have to do, right?
So in this case, we can go ahead, and
I'll just kind of show you real
quick with like one or two things.
We can create one of these viewports,
let's go ahead and take the frame tool.
Let's say iPhone 14,
great, cool.
We can go ahead, and
we can begin to put together something
that looks like a UI, right?
So I've got some pieces in here.
And this is where our constraints come
back to help us, like some layout guys
would probably also be super helpful for
getting everything in place.
So we've got that, we can give this one
like we saw before, constraints that's
left and right and top because I
pull these out of a working version.
They forgot them when they left the frame,
but
then remember them when they go back in.
So these are now very similar to what we
had before, great, awesome, seems good.
We can go grab some of these as well,
put one more frame in here,
I'm gonna take this frame,
and I'm gonna say get big like that.
Take up this area,
I'm gonna make this one an auto layout.
And what I'm gonna do is,
I'm gonna say this
width is fixed, but
hug the contents, right?
Which means be the width of the viewport,
but how tall you are,
let's see what's in you first, all right?
We'll keep the default padding, I could
use my cozy padding if I wanted to.
Yeah, let's do that to
bring it all together.
Cozy padding,
let's say 8 between them two.
Awesome, and so what we'll do is
we'll grab some of these posts,
we'll drag them in, Right?
Is that inside my frame?
Cool, so that kind of snapped in there,
we'll say, yeah,
fill and be your fixed width,
that's perfect.
We'll take these other ones as well,
Go inside the frame.
You can see that it's bigger
than the viewport at this point,
which is totally fine.
We're just gonna put that,
Behind the different navigations,
let's grab one more for good effect.
My aim isn't so great.
Cool, so we've got that in place.
And now, what we can do is we just
need to do a few more tweaks for
the prototyping piece here, all right?
What we're gonna do is switch
over the prototype tab, and
we're gonna say for the top nav,
we're gonna say fixed, stay in place.
For the bottom nav,
And for this one,
the middle we're going to say,
Hold on, I grabbed, yeah, I want my frame,
Let's see how that works real quick.
Overflow vertical.
So now I can go in here, You
can deal with that with in a second,
I think maybe I picked a viewpoint that
wasn't exactly the same as
the device that I picked.
But you can see that,
failing to adjust for that a second,
I do get something that feels like a UI,
right?
Let's go ahead,
I could share the prototype as well.
14 and 15 max and
was my prototypes that too,
I said yeah, I don't wanna max,
I want plus, plus seems good.
So we have the product is working, we
just had an issue where as I was dragging
stuff around,
I changed the size of things, right?
And so you can get a feel, and
if I had hover states over buttons,
you would see that as well.
I mean, maybe not on an iPhone because
hover and touch, you know what I mean.
Like try doing that in the Chrome DevTools
too, but like theoretically.
The other really interesting
thing that you can do is,
let's say we made a clone of this, right?
And we took out the contents
of that intermediate frame,
and we just said instead
we're gonna drag in,
Like a few of these,
Go ahead, duplicate that a bunch of times
and keep that going too if I wanted to.
And then,
I could theoretically grab this in
a victory lap to pull this all together.
We can grab a bunch of the different
avatars, can I select them all?
We'll find out.
But I can use that content real,
grab a bunch of these
just manually,
I can content reel them all in place.
And I can even replace names and
stuff like that, but
let's just go with the avatars.
Let's go with photos, that's a new one,
I haven't tried that one yet.
Those don't look AI generated at all,
sarcasm.
The session card that I used earlier,
that was an AI generated
picture from Midjourney.
It was like person thought leader giving
conference talk, and A JavaScript or
something like that,
and that's what we got.
Cool, cool, and
what's really cool about this,
and we'll even just do
one more real quick.
We'll go ahead and
close all those and delete them, and
in this case, what we're gonna
do is we'll grab one of these.
And one
of these,
Let's see,
I will just leave my desk for a second,
cuz that's not the point
I'm trying to make.
We'll go ahead and
duplicate that a bunch of times.
And what's really kind of cool about this,
take one of these and just, cool.
Is that,
then you can actually set up flows in
between the different screens, right?
So I could theoretically
grab this message icon here,
and we'll go to prototype, right?
And you can see this little plus sign,
we're gonna drag it here.
And then, we'll just say with this one,
grab this plus sign,
and we'll drag it here.
And now, if we go to our prototype,
you can see it starts over here.
You can start to build out the entire
experience, we're in the wrong place.
That's what happens when
you talk in prototype.
We'll go right here.
And I can tap the message thing, and
then I can see the screen
tab on the first person.
And you can even, go ahead,
you click here and
there is Instant, we're gonna do Move in,
And on this one,
we'll also say move in, and
we'll go back to this frame here,
and we'll do the prototype.
And so here, if we click this messages,
we kind of get what feels
a little bit like an app, right?
There's ability to do a back button and
stuff along those lines as well.
And so, you can kind of like
figure out the flow and
get all those things in place,
which is also somewhat helpful,
like there are times depending
on what we're working on.
Like as if it's something straightforward
like hey, we're updating this table?
No, right?
But if there are other interactions like
a lot of times along with the design,
I'll get the prototype to kind of
get a sense of the interactions and
feel of a given feature.
Depending on like, we don't do it for
everything, but we do it for
some of the things, right?
And like you can kind of
get all the way there.
But the important part is there a lot
of like, I think as Figma grows,
especially more true than when
we did this two years ago.
Stuff like the variables and
the ability to generate the tokens for
a design system, right?
Stuff like those responsive components
that kind of like change their layout with
that flex wrap and min and max heights,
those are all new too, right.
And there is more of an ability
than there was, not too long ago,
to actually primitives in the design,
that can very
cleanly translate into the primitives
in the development piece, right?
That said, kind of tried to
pause in the beginning here,
it is kinda somewhat on us to kind of
then play a collaborative role, right?
It is one thing to kvetch about the amount
of work it takes to implement a design,
but I do think that there's
a lot that we can do kinda,
knowing on both sides of the flow of.
Here are some abilities that actually
makes the whole developer design
interaction easier.
Also like I said before, you could be in
a startup, or you could just be working on
a site project, it is a lot
easier to prototype something and
then implement it on my own than
to be like, get a nit, right?
Like create react app, let's go, that
always sounds great on a Saturday morning,
and then I don't know what I'm
doing by the afternoon, all right?
And so, get a lot of that in place early I
think is also a developer's regret because
a lot of times like the thing where it
just start styling stuff all the time
without a real plan bites
me almost every time.
So I think being able to use these tools
are incredibly powerful as well cuz like,
you can be able to like stitch
together a prototype is super cool.
But I think a lot of stuff around
the variables and the modes and
creating stuff that very cleanly maps
to what you might see in the code.
And like yeah,
we saw we can change the values.
Like I would love to tell you that like,
developer mode makes
everything super easy.
It's a nice starting point, right?
To have like the, if I go to one of these,
for instance, like to get a sense of like,
if I output it all these variables like,
could I grab this code?
Sure.
Is there a lot of times a lot
of code I don't want to grab?
Almost always, right?
So you're like one cannot just defer to
it, but getting the colors cleanly listed,
getting at least a starting point,
it's an inspiration, but
it doesn't always solve everything.